This contains documentation on the project that I did called SimpleBanking. This is my own coding project.

This program allows the user to make an account, login, deposit money, withdraw money, pay a bill and display information about the account.

Firstly, three header files are included. The first one '#include <stdio.h>' is the regular header file that is imported which contains the standard input/output functions. The next header file included is '#include <stdlib.h>'. This header file is used for general functions that are needed in this program (e.g. for the random number). Finally, '#include <time.h>' is also used to randomise the numbers that are generated.

I defined a size of 5 which would be used in the program for the last 5 transactions made by the user (i.e. last five withdraws and last five deposits). 

I declared many variables that would be needed in the program such as the account number, pin, previous withdraws, previous deposits, cash withdraw, cash deposit and account balance. 

When the while begins, the value is set as 1. This allows the menu to appear. The user has 8 options to choose from. The option is saved inside a variable called option. A switch case is used so that the menu options can be functional. If the user chooses option number 1, the program first checks whether the user is not logged on and whether they have already completed option 1. If they are not logged on and option 1 has still not been completed, a function will be called and it will allow the user to create an account. The user is asked for their name, age, how much money they wish to put into their bank account. When they do this, they are given an account number and pin. If they did something incorrectly, an error message will appear. There are pieces of code which check for incorrect input. If the user tried to input a negative value into their bank account, an error message will be presented to them. If the user already completed option 1, they cannot do option 1 again. 

In the case that the user chose option 2, the program first checks whether the user did option 1 and whether they are logged off. If the completed option 1 and they are logged off, they can log on. The function will be called and the parameters will be passed in. This function gives the user the opportunity to log in. They will asked for their account number and pin. If they are the same, the user will be logged on and the value of the 'log_on' variable will go to 1. Otherwise, the user cannot log on the the value of the 'log on' will be 0. There is also error checking here. For instance, if the user has not completed option 1 and they try to login, they will get an error message printed. 

If the user chose option 3, they can now deposit money assusming 'option_1_completed' value is 1 and 'log_on' is 1. The function is called and it allows the user to deposit money into their bank account. All the functions used in the program are pass by references ones. The user will be asked the amount they wish to deposit. If the value is below 0, an error message is printed that says that the user cannot deposit a negative number. Otherwise, there will be a confirmation of the deposit and this will be added to the current bank account balance and the previous deposits will be updated with this value. If the user did not complete option 1, an error message will be printed to screen. 

If the user chose option 4, they can now withdraw money assuming that 'option_1_completed' is 1 and 'log_on' is 1. They will be asked how much money they wish to withdraw. If the account balance is 0, an error message will be printed. Otherwise, the transaction will take place and the cash withdraw will be taken away from the balance. That value that was withdrawn will be added to the previous withdraws so that the user can see their recent withdraws and recent deposits. If the user did not complete 'option_1_completed' and they are not logged in, an error message will tell the user this information. 

If the user picks the 5th option, they can pay a bill. If they are logged in and they already completed option 1, they can go ahead with the payment. The user enters the account number of the company and the bill amount they wish to pay. If the account balance minus the bill payment is above 0, the user is asked to enter a short message and to verify their account number. If the account number entered is equal to the account number of the user, the transaction/bill payment can take place. The account balance is updated and the bill amount is added to the previous withdraws. If the account balance minus the big total was below 0, the user could not perform the transaction. 

Option 6 allows the user to see their relevant information about their account. To do this, they must be logged on and they must have completed option 1. The information that is shown to the user is - their account name, their account balance, their previous withdraws and their previous deposits. If they did not complete option 1 or they did not log on, they cannot complete this option. 

In option 7, the user can log off. If they have completed option 1 and they are logged on, they will then be asked whether they wish to log off. If they choose 'y' or 'Y', the user will log off. If they insert 'n' or 'N', they will return back to menu. Otherwise, they return back to menu. If they have completed option 1 but have not logged in, an error message saying that they did not log in will be presented. If they have not completed option 1 and have not logged in, the error message will say that they have not registered. 

If the user chose option 8, the user can exit the program. If the user types in "8", the program will exit. Otherwise, if they click any other button, the program will return back to the main menu. 

If the user chooses option 9, the screen will clear. This is for visibility so that the user can clear the screen if there is too much unnecessary information.

Finally, if the user did not select any of the options from 1-8, they will be returned back to the menu to decide which option they want to execute.
